---
layout: page
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: faqs
---

### What kinds of events does CUL Studio usually host?

CUL Studio is designed for ethical, sustainable, collaborative, FAIR digital
and data-driven research and pedagogy.  We host conferences, seminars, talks
and workshops related to these concerns in addition to newer forms of
programming: hackathons, researchathons, tech meet-ups, and more. The spaces
are often used in conjunction with courses with a digital lab component. We
also design programs around our community’s needs. If you need a particular
workshop not offered elsewhere or would like to reverse-engineer a digital
scholarship project, CUL Studio is the right venue to host a learning session
around digital technologies, and we will be happy to match you with someone
who can help you.

### How is CUL Studio set up and how many people can it accommodate?

Please see the links to [CUL Studio Butler]({{ site.baseurl }}/spaces/butler) and [CUL Studio Lehman]({{ site.baseurl }}/spaces/lehman) for more information about the structure of these spaces.

### What technology is in CUL Studio?

CUL Studio is typically bring-your-own-technology space. There are no
computers installed in CUL Studio Butler, but we are ready to plug your laptop
in for presentations or capture events with projectors, a video camera, and
microphones. Wireless connectivity has been upgraded to the fastest available
in the library.

CUL Studio Lehman has six desktop PCs with running Windows 10 with additional
software maintained by [Research Data
Services](https://library.columbia.edu/services/research-data-services.html).

If you need advanced software or scanning technology for your research, that
is available in the Digital Humanities Center (305 Butler); software and
computers for teaching support are available in the CTL’s Learning Commons
(204 Butler).

### When is CUL Studio open?

CUL Studio programming is typically open to the Columbia community and beyond,
though many events may require an RSVP. Informal, [Open Labs]({{ site.baseurl
}}/open-lab) typically occur
every week-day in the afternoon, with CUL Studio Lehman hosting an Open Lab
Mondays through Thursdays, and CUL Studio Butler hosting an Open Lab Friday
afternoons.

CUL Studio also hosts more focused events such as [Research Data
Services](https://library.columbia.edu/services/research-data-services.html)’s
labs proctored by Digital Centers Interns at CUL Studio Lehman, and Python and R
support hours hosted by [Foundations for Research
Computing](http://rcfoundations.research.columbia.edu). CUL Studio Butler
additionally hosts events managed by the GSAS Teaching Center and the Digital
Humanities Center. 

[Our
calendar](https://library.columbia.edu/services/research-data-services/events.html)
provides more detailed information.

### I am looking for a good place to study (individually or with a group). Can I use CUL Studio for that?

CUL Studio is a space for active collaboration, training, presentation, and
consultation. We welcome your ideas for group activities in CUL Studio
pertaining to this focus. To book a traditional group study or presentation
practice space, please visit the [Libraries’s Room Reservation
system](https://roomreservations.cul.columbia.edu/).

### I am looking for a space to convene a meeting in Butler Library. Is CUL Studio Butler available for that?

If your meeting pertains to ethical, sustainable, collaborative and FAIR
digital, data-driven research or pedagogy, we are happy to work with you to
schedule it. Send us a description of the event.

### Can I bring food into CUL Studio?

Yes, you can, but you have to let us know first. Usually you will be working
with a library coordinator to plan your event. Make sure you let them know so
that they can inform the Library Information Office.

### I am teaching at Columbia, and my class includes a digital component. May I hold it in CUL Studio?

The libraries do not provide classroom space at Columbia. However, the CUL
Studio may be booked for digital lab components of Columbia classes, as well
as course-related training, project-building, and evaluation activities. Send
us your ideas for use of the CUL Studio in your course, and we’ll take it from
there.

### Is use of CUL Studio restricted to Columbia University affiliates?

Though events in the Studio must include a Columbia University component, they
may also draw in collaborators from outside the university, such as educators
at other New York City institutions, participants in NYC Digital Humanities
activities, and developers connected to teaching and scholarship projects. For
approved events we will work with you to set up access to the CUL Studio for
participants without Columbia University UNIs.

### What if I have a question about CUL Studio that isn’t answered here?

Please email us your question: studio@libraries.cul.columbia.edu.
