---
title: Columbia University Libraries Studio Open Lab
permalink: open-lab.html
---

<img alt="{{ site.data.images.butler.alt }}" src="{{ site.data.images.butler.src }}" class="img-fluid img-thumbnail" />

Since the Columbia University Libraries Studio’s founding in 2013, its primary
vehicle for engaging in its mission has been the “Open Lab.” This continues to
this day, as, between Studio at Butler and Studio at Lehman, Open Labs
constitute up to 18 hours of programming a week. Nevertheless, the concept can
be opaque and can discourage new members from attending. What follows is a
description of an Open Lab in the form of a FAQ.
{: .lead}

### Can I come to an Open Lab just because?

Of course! Open Labs are sites for ethical, sustainable, collaborative, and
<abbr title="Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable"
class="initialism">FAIR</abbr> digital, data-driven research and pedagogy.
They are not courses or workshops requiring pre-registration, though sometimes
courses or workshops happen during them. They are not opportunities to get
support on a specific software platform, though that happens as well. 

Open Labs are meant to be inclusive and welcoming, meaning the only
requirement is being willing to speak with one of the librarians who will
hopefully approach you at some point and ask what brought you there.

### But I can get help with software, right?

Open Labs aren’t support desks; rather, they’re spaces where people can work
together to answer research questions. With digital, data-driven research,
that work often requires wrestling with software. Both Studios have librarians
who can give some guidance on a wide array of digital, data-driven research
questions. Studio at Butler staffs its Open Labs with librarians and interns
from [Digital
Scholarship](https://library.columbia.edu/services/digital-scholarship.html.html),
who can help with a wide array of research questions but can also help with
publishing-related queries. Studio at Lehman, on the other hand, staffs its
Open Lab with librarians and interns from [Research Data
Services](https://library.columbia.edu/services/research-data-services.html),
who have specific technical knowledge related to data-driven research. You can
see their specific hours on the [Studio at Lehman Open Lab Walk-in
Schedule](https://library.columbia.edu/services/research-data-services/schedule.html).
Of course, there is overlap between Open Labs, and even librarians bounce
between locations.

Ideally, you will come with a specific question and stay because the
environment is welcoming, eventually joining a community and crafting
collaborative work with your peers.

### Can I come even though I’ve never coded in my life?

The requirements for coming to an Open Lab are more related to attitude than
to skill, so beginners are always welcome. As this site matures, we hope it
will include more in the way of on-boarding for future beginners. That is, we
hope to provide something like a guide for getting more involved in the life
of Studio. 

But it must be underscored: Open Labs are not places to “learn Python.” They
are about learning a practice for digital, data-driven research. Python, the
programming language, may play a role in any given project (including your
own), but it just as easily may not. For those interested in “learning Python”
(or “learning R”), we point you, instead, to courses your department might
offer; to the Computer Science Department’s [Computing in Context (COMS
W1002)](http://bulletin.columbia.edu/search/?P=%22Computing%20in%20Context%22)
course, which uses Python to introduce computing concepts to undergraduates
and graduate students; and, finally, to the workshops and boot camps hosted by
[Foundations for Research
Computing](http://rcfoundations.research.columbia.edu).

### Anything else?

For now, please also read our Open Lab [Code of Conduct]({{ "/code-of-conduct.html" | relative_url }}).
