---
title: "Announcing Studio Remote"
slug: studio-remote-launch
image:
 src: "/assets/imgs/post-images/studio-remote-still.png"
 alt: Image of Moacir and Alex working on Twitch
prompt: ""
---

We miss the social life that we fostered around our collaborative research and
learning, especially every Friday from 3pm to 5pm at the Studio Burler.  This
summmer, after wrapping up our work building [a grass roots
coallition](http://covidmakerresponse.com/) to provide our city with much
needed PPE, we started to offer our support to faculty, students and
colleagues again, adjusting to our intensified virtual research and learning
environments. As part of our renewed effort, we began to dream of new and
creative programming that would be more appropriate to our new ways of
working. Today Columbia University Libraries Studio is proud to announce the
first of such initiatives: Studio Remote. 

Starting Friday, October 23rd, 2020, and continuing thereafter every Friday
from 3PM to 5PM—on our old Studio Butler Open Lab hours—librarians Moacir P de
Sá Pereira and Alex Gil will be [your hosts on
Twitch](https://twitch.tv/culstudio) as they live stream
original programming designed around specific projects and ideas. We invite
students, faculty, and colleagues from Columbia and around the world to join
us as we build digital scholarship projects live, step-by-step. While we
broadcast, you will be welcome to ask us questions or offer us feedback in
Twitch's chat section.  If you’re otherwise engaged on Fridays, you can also
catch our recordings later on our [YouTube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLOUh6s8E2FYAVAsJg3lgoA).  We hope that building
these projects in the open and live might replicate how we critique, shape and
implement digital scholarship ideas in real time when you're _not_ watching.
This shared space we hope will help those who are embarking on or have
embarked on projects of their own, the DH-curious perhaps, and definitely
those veterans who would like to join our conversation. 

Do not be surprised if we invite you to jump from the comments to our video stream! 


### Season 1: The “Rose Hall Project”

In Season 1 of Studio Remote, Moacir and Alex will work on the “Rose Hall
Project” in collaboration with [Celia E.
Naylor](https://barnard.edu/profiles/celia-e-naylor), Professor of Africana
Studies and History at Barnard College, Columbia University. Rose Hall
Plantation in Montego Bay, Jamaica is one of the island’s largest tourist
attractions. Tours of the old plantation still revolve around the myth of the
White Witch of Rose Hall.  Not only is this story ahistorical, it obscures the
lives of the enslaved who labored and lived in Rose Hall. In this project we
set out to re-center the their lives and relationships with each other as best
as we can from the flawed and dehumanizing archival record. The project will
serve as a companion piece to Naylor's forthcoming volume on the Rose Hall
Plantation.

With the first season you will learn about wireframes, the [Ember JavaScript
framework](http://emberjs.com), the [D3 visualization
library](http://d3js.org/), and much more! Watch this space for episodes and
links as our first season progresses. We look forward to seeing you on
Fridays!
